# DC SRAP meeting 62

Time: 2025-05-20, 15:00-16:00 UTC  
Place: Zoom, [https://helsinki.zoom.us/j/62368569596?pwd=UGQxenZFbjZQUlluRzdQQUM1UFhaUT09](https://helsinki.zoom.us/j/62368569596?pwd=UGQxenZFbjZQUlluRzdQQUM1UFhaUT09) 

## Agenda

1. ### Opening of the meeting

2. ### Appointment of the minutes taker \- Karen

3. ### Approval of the agenda

4. ### Minutes of previous meetings

Minutes of meeting 61 (2025-04-22) not yet posted.

Minutes of previous meetings are on GitHub:  
[https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/tree/main/meetings) 

5. ### Changes to the UB proposal, SRAP specification and TAP

Karen has made a lot of structural changes to the [specification](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/docs/srap-profile.md), now also on GitHub.

TODO list from Karen's e-mail:

* compare to dctap  
  * *Osma will reorder DCTAP to match document*  
  * *Karen will look for missing or extra items*  
* make sure ToC works  
  * *Does work*  
* add examples  
  * *adding inline examples for specific elements*  
  * *do one for each section?*  
  * *maybe don't need for existing dc terms \- they are well-known*  
  * *do examples for anything new in srap*  
  * *linking: make periodical shape and book shape more emphasized (code)*  
  * *extended date-range link? LoC: (looked up in prefix.cc) . Link added.*  
  * *example of dates not needed*  
  * *enumeration: what values should be shown in examples? adding note about page numbers*  
  * *rights? don't need*  
  * *accessibility: taking examples from MARC documentation*  
  * *project and funding: are all srap, so example being added.*   
  * *scholarlyunit: can be simple (name or url of university department)*  
  * *For person, organization \- there are ones in the examples, we just need to copy*  
* other? 

6. ### SRAP examples

Osma will work on the examples before the meeting.

- *Alasdair will do masters thesis example. will be mainly flat*  
- *Osma has done work on examples*  
- *use srap:name not foaf*

Conference paper [example](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/docs/examples/conference-paper.md):

* should we use bibo:presentedAt here? What is the value? (In BIBO, it is of type bibo:Event \- but we don't have a shape corresponding to that in SRAP)  
* if this is part of a conference publication, is that covered by the Book shape in SRAP?

Some examples use literal values (person names) for dct:creator, but the TAP doesn't currently allow it. Should it be allowed, or should the examples be changed to always use BNode or IRI?

* *These have been changed to allow either by adding rows for string only*

7. ### Any other business 

Meeting with UB chairs

* *This friday 2:30 Helsinki \- 12:30 UK; Osma and Alasdair will attend*

8. ### Closure of the meeting

