DC SRAP Working Group Meeting No. 7 - Minutes

Time: 2021-09-21, 16.00-17.00 CEST (14:00-15:00 UTC)

Place: Zoom, https://helsinki.zoom.us/j/65560276003?pwd=K214bzJXdWd1ZXNPbFFoUWYxV1N5UT09 

Attendees: Jan Ashton (Minutes); Tom Baker; Karen Coyle; Juha Hakala (Chair); Freddy Sumba; Nisha Thalhath; Josephina Siguecion.

1. Opening of the meeting

2. Appointment of the minutes-taker (Juha will act as the chair).

Jan Ashton agreed to take the minutes.

3. Approval of the agenda

Approved

4. Minutes of the previous meeting (2021-08-24, Karen)

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w4Pc_acjg0wsV2ch_cagX8IcnwTlig6gdSA26mJafIQ/edit

Some had problems accessing the Google Doc. Still need to be finalized and put into the meetings folder of the dc-srap repository.

5. Element-specific discussion 
a. Embargo date
The WG discussed Juha’s simplified version of Alasdair’s proposal for definition of the Embargo Date Range property. See the comment dated 2021-09-17 at https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/5
Note that the value can be a date range but the end date should be recommended.

ACTION: Juha to forward this proposal to the DCMI Usage Board for discussion and approval.

b. Status
The proposal of a new ’status’ sub-element on dct:type (using the OpenAire vocabulary for publication statuses) is problematic because the statuses are not resource types but publication states of the described resource. We therefore need to create a new property for ’publication status’. The WG proposes:

Label: publicationStatus
Definition: state of the publication in its publicaton process, describing where the publicaton is in its workflow.

’Publication’ is used since it is not as specific as ’scholarly resource’ and not as broad as ’resource’. ’Scholarly resource’ can be used in the DC SRAP definition.

The WG would like to use the OpenAire vocabulary with the addition of retracted status and lost status. However, the defintions are lost from the OpenAire profile.

ACTION: Jan to follow up with the LSE to see if they can point us to a location for the vocabulary defintions.
ACTION: Jan to inform the OpenAire community that there are dead links for their vocabulary definitions.

c. The following three items were moved to the next meeting due to time constraints.
• Presented at
• Affiliation
• DCMI `isVersionOf` and `hasVersion`
Is it necessary to add these to SRAP, and if so, is there anything in SRAP that is different from or adds to dct:isversionof? and/or dct:hasVersion?

6. Next meeting Tuesday 28th September 2021 16:00 Central European Time.
The meeting has been brought forward because a number of attendees will be participating in the DCMI Virtual Conference on the following weeks.

ACTION: Juha to send agenda and invitation.

7. Closure of the meeting

