# SRAP WG meeting 2021-06-15

## Opening of the meeting
## Roll call of participants

* Osma Suominen (chair)
* Juha Hakala (secretary) 
* Jan Ashton
* Tom Baker
* Josefina Cedia
* Karen Coyle (github: kcoyle)
* Alasdair MacDonald
* Stefanie Rühle
* Freddy Sumba (CEDIA)

The attendees described their involvement with metadata in general and with Dublin Core in particular. 

## Appointment of the meeting chair and minutes taker

Osma Suominen was elected as the chair and Juha Hakala as the secretary of the meeting. 

## Our technical infrastructure

### Email list

The email list exists already. Tom created it, using the existing DCMI infrastructure. Tom needs everybody’s email addresses to include all the attendees to the list. The mailing list is https://lists.dublincore.org/mailman/listinfo/dc-srap - post by sending mail to dc-srap@lists.dublincore.org. 

All messages intended to the SRAP WG should be sent to the list, instead of individual members. 

### Google Docs and / or GitHub?

In GitHub, version control would be better and the resulting document would be closer to the one to be published. Providing comments would be more difficult than in Google Docs. Everyone should be able to access all GitHub issues. DCMI has organizational GitHub account which makes it easy to manage write access to repositories. 

Tom’s preference is GitHub, because in Google Docs controlling versions and comments would be more complicated. Stefanie voiced similar concerns about Google. 

Other options and the benefits of using both systems for different purposes were discussed. 

The group decided to create a GitHub repository. The working document will be kept in Google Docs for the time being, in order to make it as easy as possible to provide comments for now. 

The address of the repository is https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap .

Everyone who wants to edit the content in the GitHub repository needs an account in the system. 

## Introduction to the SRAP draft (Osma)

Osma presented the current SRAP draft. He explained the background and described the choices made by the Finnish working group which prepared the draft. 
Some modifications have already been made as a result of feedback from DCMI.   

### Comments to the draft

Juha and Osma would like to know the way forward: what kind of modifications are still required? 

Karen: we need to think whether the SRAP terms will also be used outside the academic publishing sphere. For example, Embargo date can be used in all kinds of publishing. The current version of the profile accommodates this; it is not a SRAP specific term in the draft. 

GitHub issues will be established for problems (element related and otherwise) that need to be solved and cannot be solved easily during the WG meetings. 

Some particularly thorny issues were identified; meta-metadata (metadata provenance) is one of these. Stefanie promised to inform the group about related work being done / under way in Germany. 

PID issue (how to express the name and identifier of a public identity in the same XML structure) is currently being discussed in DCMI, and this may help us to find a good solution. 

Jan Ashton is involved with creation of an AP for data sets. They have chosen to use tabular form for it. This could be a viable solution for us as well. 

### Your contributions to the WG

See above. 

## Next meeting

Finding a good time slot is hard, but the current one (UTC 14 -15) seems like the best compromise. 

There was no strong preference for the day of week, except that Stefanie had a strong preference for meeting on Tuesdays. 

We should meet every two weeks, at least in the beginning. 

Next meeting: June 29th, UTC 14-15. The following meetings will be held every two weeks after that. 

## Closure of the meeting

The chair closed the meeting UTC 15.10. 
