DC SRAP Working Group 3rd Meeting 13 July 2021

Attendees: Juha Hakala (Chair); Jan Ashton; Tom Baker;
Karen Coyle; Alasdair MacDonald; Sam Oh; Stephanie
Ruehle; Freddy Sumba

----------------------------------------------------------
1. Policy matters

The DCMI Governing Board will accept a draft proposal but
outside of formal DCMI work. The Governing Board will
also give acceptance once the draft has been finalised by
the DCMI Usage Board.

The two DCMI boards have different roles. The DCMI
Governing Board is responsible for political decisions:
approving the development of the suggested profile within
DCMI and, at the end of the process, accepting it for
publication. Between these milestones, DCMI Usage Board
will process the new and altered properties in the
profile, especially from the semantics point of view. 

----------------------------------------------------------
2. Issues - elements on Github

a. Embargo details

Discussion around the fact that "embargo" also affects
rights and access conditions.

Stephanie noted that she and colleagues in a Licensing
Working Group were looking at use cases and examples of
possible solutions.

Decision: The COAR Access Rights vocabulary term
"embargoed access" is the recommended solution for
providing information on the existence of embargo. The
COAR definition of embargoed access is "Embargoed access
refers to a resource that is metadata only access until
released for open access on a certain date. Embargoes can
be required by publishers and funders policies, or set by
the author (e.g. such as in the case of theses and
dissertations)." This is OK for SRAP.

In addition, SRAP introduces two sub-properties for
accessRights, hasEmbargoDate and hasEmbargoDuration.
These sub-properties are adopted from FaBiO and allow
accurate provision of embargo-related metadata.

b. status

How to describe the status as regards its publication
status e.g. pre-print; accepted version etc. and dates.

The new version of the COAR vocabulary defines Version
types that include such examples. This new COAR
vocabulary will be very helpful to both SRAP in
particular and Dublin Core in general.

Decision: Proposed to extend SRAP to use the list of COAR
vocabulary values for Resource types, Access types and
Version types.

c. presentedAt

Discussion around using a URI and/or a text literal for
the name of the conference. A literal would need
formatting guidelines on how to record the name, venue
and date for example. Proposal is to describe the
encoding of the text in the User Guidelines of the
application profile for implementers. This keeps the AP
itself simple.

Alasdair is on an Identifiers for Serialisations Working
Group considering using an id attribute or multiple id
attributes to hold URIs. SRAP needs this for presentedAt
but possibly even more so for all properties with names
of natural and legal persons. 

ACTION: Alasdair to report on the latest developments
of the Identifiers for Serialisations WG.

d. New DC terms or existing schema elements?

Discussion around the approach of attempting to find as
many new terms from existing schemas and then considering
remaining requirements for new Dublin Core terms. There
is a concern that any existing schemas should be
authoritative and well maintained.

The list of issues/elements will be sorted into those
elements that are being proposed as new Dublin core
elements and those that can use elements from other
schemas. Action of Osma and Juha to sort the elements as
above and to update the Profile draft and share via
Github.



