
DC SRAP meeting 5 

Time: 2021-08-10, 16.00-17.00 CET

Place: Zoom, https://helsinki.zoom.us/j/64603883019?pwd=aUlCcWxrbEkwQkFsZHF1VFJ3UmlpUT09

1. Opening of the meeting 
2. Appointment of the minutes taker (Juha will act as the chair)
3. Karen will take minutes
4. Approval of the agenda 
5. Minutes of the previous meeting 
6. Next meeting August 24 - still need to finalize embargo and status

A draft has been sent with this draft agenda. 

7. Element-specific comments 

## Embargo

Decision from the previous meeting:

dct:accessRights to record presence of embargo, populated by COAR vocabulary

New term `dct:embargoDate` for recording dates and period of embargo

Dates will always be a range and may include conjectural dates, approximates dates, months or days

An individual date only is not to be used as this is unclear as to what the date refers to

Embargoes with unknown end dates are recorded as open ended ranged, e.g. 2021-07-21/

Embargo end dates alone are recorded as ‘to date’ ranges, e.g. /2021-07-27

Alasdair will add "not using FaBiO" to minutes of previous meeting.

### Discussion on embargo
<pre>
kc: do we need a date type class to be the range?
stefanie: can that be in the definition? otherwise it is embargo end date
Al: embargo date cannot be a single date - needs a beginning and an end. Not just date available - use open-ended. Calling it date could be confusing
st: call it embargo period?
al: embargo date range?
ju: agrees
os: encoding scheme for period. dc has class PeriodOfTime. can be used with coverage. is old, so maybe shouldn't be used. 
ju: but application would have to be told to use ISO 8601.
os: period encoding scheme doesn't say to use particular scheme - you can define. 
ju: need to specify start and end date separately, which ISO date can do. 
kc: don't let old dc document bother us; just look at the vocabulary
os: we need to decide that we agree that this is a range of dates.
st: start with definition. name it embarge date range - in definition say it is a range, and has to be iso 8601
ju: and range can be open at either end; end date should be there. expressed as a range when possible
kc: what is it a subclass of?
st. not date
os: can use it a subproperty of coverage or date
st: date is defined as point or period of time, so it could be a subclass of date
ju: can then be defined as 8601
st: need definition where it's date range, and description of ranges by 8601
ju: slash in 8601 is awkward
st: can display without slash; can be transformed
Al: will provide a straw-man definition</pre>

Any (final) comments to this?

## Discussion on Status
<pre>
Karen: FaBiO vocab has a number of status properties: date received, date accepted, date preprint disseminated, date retracted (very important!). 
But this brings up another issue about status: There is the status of the document being described, but there are disciplines that record in the metadata for a published document the dates of the various "steps", such as submission and acceptance. These are used to establish who published research first. So there's "status of this" and "date of status markers". 
I think these would need to be separate properties.
See: https://sparontologies.github.io/fabio/current/fabio.html#dataproperties and separate agenda item on Date retracted.
Juha: FaBiO conflates "status of this" and "date of status marker". If a resource has submission date, the existence of that date in a metadata record indicates the status of the document at the specified date and time. This is an attractive solution, because most publication statuses are transitory - code "submitted" would normally be superseded by something else. But "date submitted" will be valid even after the resource has been approved for publication. 
We might consider analyzing all status related dates from FaBiO, and adopting them if deemed relevant. Currently we have taken onboard just date retracted as a proposed element.  

kc: there is moment in the life of an article and there is information 
st: we are talking about the status of the document "in hand" - preprint is the version/edition. type is preprint - not a status.
os: preprint not the same as what is published in journal. it's a different instance, not a status. preprint has a date. preprint has date it was accepted. not a property of the preprint?
st: how do you describe the two dates? what data element?
os: no data element - just in a text field
ju: we need to create that schema. two kinds of dates: there is version; but if doc is retracted that's a different date. we will need specific sub-elements of date
st: what are the use cases? often I write it in the text field; but need a date if want to search or limit on date
ju: rely on experience of group
kc: is fact of preprint more important than date?
st: don't think we need an element 'status" - can use type of resource
ju: partially agree. preprint in repo, all metadata will refer to the preprint
st: this is status, not date
ju: acceptance is a status. date is intertwined.
kc: if we have version, we can use dct:date
kc: these are two different thing
ju: not entirely different - depend on each other
st: not the same
ju: if retract, don't create a new status or resource type
kc: wikidata gives a status of retracted. (will add to minutes here)
ju: yes, separate these two things. begin with resource type in COAR. https://vocabularies.coar-repositories.org/resource_types/3.0/
st: get rid of idea of status, talk about resource types and document types, and the relation between resource types and dates
ni: if a retraction, there is a retraction note. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/07418825.2020.1781396
st: resource type is article, need date retracted. as a text field
ni: how to link to article that defines retraction
</pre>
### Summary?: (kc)

Two different requirements:
1. Within the scholarly article publication workflow, the status of the item "in hand"
2. Within the scholarly article publication workflow, the date of significant status steps (submitted, accepted, etc.) of the item "in hand"

## Discussion on Presented at
http://purl.org/ontology/bibo/presentedAt

Karen: This may need to take a shape as a value so that one could include conference name, conference date  
## Affiliation 
With MARC Bibliographic format it is possible to provide only the name of author’s current affiliation in X00 $u. MARC Authority has a tag 373 with which it is possible to describe all the affiliations and their date ranges, plus identifiers of those organizations. Similar difference exists between Library of Congress MADS and MODS formats. 

Should SRAP have simple MARC Bibliographic/MODS like affiliation data, or should we provide more complete information? The current proposal is a compromise, since it includes the name and identifier of the current affiliation, but does not make room for past affiliations.  

### Proposals for new SRAP elements 
 
**Date retracted**: according to FaBiO, “The date on which something, for example a claim or a journal article, is retracted.”


## Other business 
Freddy Sumba: resources in code repositories - 
Sometimes the main descriptions of work are in code repositories like GitHub, which is not the same as the webpage. Inline to reuse/reproduce the work we can express the repository code RUL in the metadata of a resource.

## Next meeting August 24


