# DC SRAP meeting 14

* Time: 2022-05-03, 14.00-15.00 CEST (12:00-13:00 UTC)
* Place: Zoom, https://helsinki.zoom.us/j/67810295086?pwd=NmJXWGNUZkhJeitSakZ2MEVlRm0yZz09
* Present: Juha (chair), Osma, Tom, Jan, Alasdair, Nishad

## 1. Opening of the meeting 

Juha opened the meeting at 14:05 CEST

## 2. Appointment of the minutes taker (Juha will act as the chair)

Osma selected as the minutes taker.

## 3. Approval of the agenda

Agenda approved.

## 4. Minutes of the previous meeting (2022-04-19)

Minutes were published at https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/meetings/2022-04-19.srap_meeting_13.md

## 5. Review of proposed SRAP Publication statuses 

Approved the following list of statuses:

* public draft
* submitted manuscript
* preprint
* postprint
* publication
* updated publication

See https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/11

Tom: What is an update?

Juha: It's an updated publication - something has been publicly available but later changed.

Tom: Could it be called "updated publication" then?

Juha: Yes, we can change that.

Juha: Can we approve this as final (for now) so we can move into other parts of the profile?

No objections, status list approved. This will be a part of the SRAP specification that will eventually be sent to the Usage Board.

Juha: These should not be set in stone - if there are good reasons to change, the discussion can be reopened.

## 6. Review of proposed SRAP Date subproperties

See https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/20

Date subproperties and their definitions in: 

https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/terms/date_subproperties.md

were approved by the attendees of the 13th meeting of the WG. Is this good enough for public review or do we still need to change something? (all)

Osma: What about dateAccessioned? This seems to be automatically generated by DSpace repositories, meaning the time when the document was uploaded. A bit lower level, technical timestamp than these.

Juha: We can return to this later; I am not fundamentally opposed if there is a good case for it.

Jan: dateAccessioned seems more like administrative metadata of the repository, more than about the resource itself.

Alasdair: A date in the repository more than relevant for resource itself.

Juha: Technical, administrative. If we want to add it, need to think how it relates to the statuses.

Osma: Maybe better not to include.

Juha: Do we need to change dateUpdated as well?

Tom: Could it be dateUpdatedAsPublication? This would follow the same pattern as the others. dateUpdated is too general.

Juha: We can provide guidance. For instance, dateMissing could relate to any status whereas dateRetracted only involves publications or updated publications. Rename to dateRetractedAsPublication.

Jan: Dates are already very specific. Do we want them to be more generalizable for DCMI? These are now specific to libraries and academic publication processes in journals.

Alasdair: For dateUpdated, if we don't make it specific, we could run the risk that people don't read the scope notes and use it improperly.

Juha: Should we provide essential information in the name of the property or just in the description? We are toeing a fine line here. dateUpdatedAsPublication is a useful clarification - we don't want people to use it for when a preprint is turned into a postprint.

Tom: Resources will accumulate many dates, which gives a record of status changes. If we used less specific, more generic properties, that would need more data modelling.

Juha: It's important to keep a record so we can determine who came up with an idea first. Other formats are not doing this yet.

Alasdair: Would we allow multiple similar dates for a series of updated?

Juha: That might require creating a new resource. Minor updates can be done in the same resource/record, but major updates would require a new one.

Juha: I think this is a reasonable starting point. Are we ready to approve this set of date properties?

Tom: Has Karen given any comments?

Juha: She has commented in the past, I've considered them in the current proposal.


Approved the following date subproperties:

* dateAvailableAsPublicDraft
* dateReceivedAsManuscript
* dateSubmittedAsPreprint
* dateSubmittedAsPostprint
* dateAccepted
* dateAheadOfPrint
* datePublished
* dateUpdatedAsPublication
* dateRetractedAsPublication
* dateMissing
* dateLost 

## 7. Affiliation information

See https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/3

Description of the new class and properties should be written in a Markdown snippet (Osma).

There is an example (by Osma) of expressing affiliation information in XML:
https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/profile/affiliation-example.xml

Osma: Have not written up the Markdown snippets yet - next meeting. (Shows XML example: paper 20 years ago with three authors and affiliations at the time - very simple record with data and DC terms - title and three authors expressed with dct:creator. In all cases, value of creator element is not just a name, but element "Affiliated Agent". PID attribute used to express identifier - could be ORCIDs, Wikidata IDs - any sort of semi-persistent identifier. Structured way to express information given on the first page of the paper. Question whether it is appropriate to use the attribute pid= in this way. Agent and Affiliation as properties of creator. Attribute id= is reserved in XML - so cannot use - this was a bug in what we discussed in Porto - Opened Issue 17 in 'dcmi/pids_in_dc' repo. With id= can only have one value - and value must be unique within the context of the XML document.)

Juha: Problem with PID: "persistent identifier" should not be just an ordinary URL. Would use that only for an ISNI or ORCID. 

Osma: I can edit the example to put in real ORCIDs or other PIDs.

Alasdair: We could take quick jump up to my agenda point - been contacting people who were interested. Alasdair, Osma, Scott, John on a call? My question: If we do not use id= (good reasons not to).

Tom: Could publish as a DCMI Note.

Juha: Can't be part of SRAP, it's more generic. SRAP can use it if it's published.

Alasdair: There are different use cases for PIDs, including also subjects.

Juha: Similar function as MARC subfield zero.

Alasdair: If we had published best practice guidelines, we could explain how to use this attribute.

Tom: If you introduce a new XML attribute, is it good practice to introduce it with a namespace? If it required a namespace, I guess it wouldn't be that much extra work. Important to follow established conventions in the XML world.

Juha: So we will have a recommendation on PIDs in DC and we can offload this to a group of other people.

## 8. Any other business

### 8.1 Drafting the SRAP specification in Markdown

There is already a crude Markdown version of the original SRAP draft specification (2021-01-08): https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/profile/srap_proposal_20210108.md

Snippets created after the 13th meeting (if any). 

### 8.2 Describing creator-related PIDs (ORCID, ISNI, ROR) in Dublin Core â€“ status of the WG (Alasdair)

### 8.3 Next work items

Juha: We could take up new element such as grants. Will discuss with Osma and Tom.

## 9. Next meeting

Scheduled to take place 2022-05-17, 13:00-14:00 UTC

## 10. Closure of the meeting

Juha closed the meeting.
