# DC SRAP meeting 11

Time: 2022-03-22, 14:00-15:00 UTC
Place: Zoom, https://helsinki.zoom.us/j/67810295086?pwd=NmJXWGNUZkhJeitSakZ2MEVlRm0yZz09
Present: Juha (chair), Osma (minutes), Tom, Jan, Alasdair, Freddy

These minutes: https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/meetings/2022-03-22.srap_meeting_11.md

## 1. Opening of the meeting

Juha opened the meeting.

## 2. Appointment of the minutes taker (Juha will act as the chair)

Osma appointed as minutes taker.

## 3. Approval of the agenda

Agenda approved. Decided to start with Affiliation (5.2) instead of date types (5.1)

## 4. Minutes of the previous meeting (2020-11-09)

No comments.

## 5. Element-specific discussion

### 5.1 New date type terms to cover suggested publication statuses 

GitHub issues:

* https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/11 (publication status)
* https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/20 (date properties)

Tom: What are the pairs of terms here? Is dateDraftShared a proposal for a new property?

Juha: Yes. Date when draft is shared with colleagues, say. Dates like this are vital to show who presented an idea first. "draft", "preprint", "postprint" etc. are proposals for publication statuses (values for a new property "publication status") while "dateDraftShared", "datePreprintSubmitted" etc. are proposals for new date properties.

Tom: Would these properties accumulate? A resource can have many types of dates like this?

Juha: Yes that's possible.

Tom: Would the resource still have just one status, even if it has multiple dates?

Juha: The publication status would indicate current status (just one) but the dates would indicate the history or track record of the publication.

Tom: OK, clear what you mean, but not clear from the proposal.

Alasdair: You cannot have a draft PDF with information about when the paper was finally published

Juha: Yes, the document can only contain past dates related to the status.

Juha: There has been wide agreement about the need for dateRetracted. In this case the record becomes a tombstone for a paper that has been published and later retracted. I think we all agree that dateMissing is required - both printed and digital documents can go missing. dateLost is interesting - Karen argued that digital documents are never lost, they can only be missing. To me, DC is not only for digital stuff but also other materials including printed works, historical works that are no longer available. dateAheadOfPrint relates to the final version of article before it is published, if the document is made available independetly - earlier than datePublished, sometimes it may solve disputes on who did things first. Does this make sense after clarifications? Should we use this as base?

Jan: Yes.

Tom: Is "dateDraftShared" or "datePreprintSubmitted" the right form - seem to imply that the resource is a draft/preprint. dateSharedAsDraft, dateSubmittedAsPreprint would be more verbose but avoid this problem.

Alasdair: Difference between draftShared and submitted?

Juha: Sharing can be extremely informal, submitting is more formal.

Alasdair: Sharing is a bit ambiguous, submitted isn't.

Osma: Would "circulated" be better than "shared"?

Juha: Terms for publication status mostly come from ISO 5127, but some additions were made during translation to Finnish e.g. version of record which is established in the scientific community.

Jan: How about "dateDraftAvailable"?

Alasdair: Yes, better, more precise. Captures that draft is accessible to people, not that they have necessarily received it.

Tom: Following the pattern, "dateSubmittedAsPreprint", "dateAvailableAsDraft" would fit better.

Jan: Agree, sounds more consistent.

Juha: Need to prepare a draft for the next meeting. Osma, Tom, Alasdair, Juha will prepare.

### 5.2 Affiliation

* GitHub issue: https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/3 

Juha: Proposal is to concentrate on the current affiliation of author(s), as expressed in the publication itself.

Osma has provided three alternatives:

* **Option A**: Appealing to give URI to each author. If author resources are not identified with persistent IDs, not a problem. So too simple.
* **Option B**: If one goes into territory of an authority file (but doesn't make sense).
* **Option C**: Similar to A, but has resource that brings together author and institution but only in the context of this publication. Would require extra modeling. Would need new Class - not just Person, but (say) AffiliatedAuthor.

Juha: Could it have start and end?

Osma: Would prefer to stick with information one gets from the resource itself.
Alasdair: Also, whether someone has moved on to another job is relevant to an authority record, but not to the resource described.

All agreed to choose **Option C**, but the names of classes and properties may need to be polished.

## 6. Any other business 

Juha: ISO TC 46 SC 4 (technical interoperability) still has WG 16 (Dublin Core) responsible for the DC ISO standard. This group will meet on 12 May. This group is waiting for the SRAP specification. DC is developed in tandem between this WG and DCMI. Same people are in both groups. DCMI is in the driver's seat; ISO has a supporting role, with more people involved in the process. ISO gives a higher status to DC. Actual ISO standardization should go through a fast-track process to avoid heavy process. Roles of different partners need to be clear when Juha presents SRAP to WG 16 in May. WG needs to have a meaningful role in the development of SRAP.

Osma: What about the role of the Usage Board?

Tom: UB needs to decide on additions (properties and classes) to DC Terms. As soon as SRAP WG has proposals it could ask UB for feedback. Needs to be done as term proposals. The usage guidelines can be mentioned in cover notes. UB would primarily look at term proposals.

Juha: UB would deal with the strong semantic kernel of SRAP; for the supporting documentation the ISO WG and SRAP WG would have a more substantial role. I have a draft agenda for the WG 16 meeting, shared with Tom and Osma. More information will come in later meetings of SRAP WG.

## 7. Next meeting

Scheduled to take place 2022-04-05, 16.00-17.00 CEST (14:00-15:00 UTC)

## 8. Closure of the meeting

Juha closed the meeting.

