# DC SRAP meeting 15

https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-17.srap_meeting_15.md

Time: 2022-05-17, 13:00-14:00 UTC, 15.00-16.00 CEST 

Attended: Osma (chair), Karen, Alasdair, Tom (scribe)

----------------------------------------------------------
Approval of the agenda

- Approved

----------------------------------------------------------
Minutes of the previous meeting (2022-05-03)

- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/meetings/2022-05-03.srap_meeting_14.md
- Approved

----------------------------------------------------------
Contributor + MARC Relator codes or role-specific SRAP terms? 

Juha: The current SRAP draft has multiple role-specific terms:

- Creator group (Osma: this is not actually in the current draft - we discussed and actually dropped it. See below.)
- Degree supervisor
- Editor 
- Funder 
- Opponent 

Juha (from agenda): Whenever possible, definitions and URIs of SRAP terms have been taken from MARC relator codes, to indicate semantic equivalence with them (http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/relators/dgs, https://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/relators/edt , https://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/relators/fnd, http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/relators/opn)

Juha (in agenda): This would make it easy to extend SRAP (and DC in general) to all roles MARC relators specify. There are several that are within the SRAP scope, such as honoree (of a festschrift), originator (of scientific ideas), programmer, researcher, research team head, research team member (alas, there is no code for research team). Then only those contributor roles which are currently not included in MARC relators (such as Creator group) would have to be added SRAP as new DCMI terms (or, alternatively, added to MARC relator codes). 

> For these terms, would it be better to use just Contributor and subproperty indicating the role the person or group has had? 

Tom: The Usage Board worked with LC in circa 2004 to define a set of relators as subproperties of dc:contributor, with URIs. Part of our motivation, at the time, was to avoid the model of having some sort of special "role" construct in favor of using relators directly as properties. The word "relator" is in fact evocative of the RDF meaning because a property, like a relator, relates two things. Note that some of the relators listed above are defined as subproperties so, by inference, they are properties.

Osma: Juha may be thinking of contributor as a 700 field in MARC with the relators as subfields. The "separate property" solution is more in the RDF style.

Karen: Creator Group?

Osma: We may have discussed previously and dropped (see above).

Karen: Various vocabularies distinguish individuals from groups.

Osma: Schema.org and RDA have a type on the related person or corporation. I think we are agreeing to use separate properties.

Karen: This would [set a precedent] with more general applicability.

Osma: If they are intended to be used as properties, would prefer if they were typed explicitly as properties by LC. LC is not even saying they are properties. I can see why these are SKOS concepts, from a MARC point of view. If you have a list of codes, natural to use as SKOS. Fits into a structure that expects a code value. I guess using them as RDF properties is "punning" - use the same URI in two different contexts. From the very first drafts we circulated, this is one of the comments we received - why not use relator codes? That's why we changed to this in later draft. Bigger question: Try to keep everything in DC namespace or ok to use other vocabularies, and are there rules when to do this or that?

Tom: Slippery slope to encourage everyone to use DCMI MT as a one-stop source of relators. We approve a selection, then someone asks if we could please add X, then Y.

Karen: Sets of relators in parallel. Would they then need to be mapped?

Osma: Have a question about the use of relators as intended by LC. Use even if they have not formally expressed them as RDF properties?

Karen: DC does not have properties that distinguish between personalAgent and corporateAgent.

Osma: https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap-issues/3 - just posted before this call.

Karen: Nothing to say that "editor" is a person-agent and not organization. We have two things going on: What is the role and what is the type?

Osma: True that DC does not distinguish between these types of agent, but not crucial for this proposal. But a fair criticism of DC terms - there is an Agent class but it stops there. AffiliatedAgent is a person wearing a hat, so we need to separate the "person" from the "hat". There is an Agent class but no subclasses. But on the other hand, DC has a certain scope, which is more about documents than about people. Would not want to press to broaden that scope at this point.

[Discussion of dcterms:AgentClass] Instances of AgentClass are classes themselves. Student, a class is a subclass of rdfs:Class. Some student, then, is an instance of a Student class.

Osma: We appear to be agreeing:
- Use separate properties for each role.
- Slight preference for using MARC relator codes as properties, even if they are not explicitly declared as properties.

Alasdair: dc.contributor.[relator] - DSpace style - hoped we could move away from it.

Alasdair: Would want to use identifiers for places, subjects, as well.

----------------------------------------------------------
Affiliation information

- https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/3
- Description of the new class and properties in a Markdown snippet (Osma)

Osma: Prefer that we model things in way that works in RDF, and only then figure out how to do it in other legacy representations. Conclusion is that we should try to use role-specific terms, but those role-specific terms could be the relator codes. Application profile can say which properties to use. [Shows XML example - https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/profile/affiliation-example.xml ]

----------------------------------------------------------
Any other business

Juha (agenda): Drafting the SRAP specification in Markdown. There is already a crude Markdown version of the original SRAP draft specification (2021-01-08): https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/profile/srap_proposal_20210108.md Snippets created after the 14th meeting (if any). 

----------------------------------------------------------
Describing creator-related PIDs (ORCID, ISNI, ROR) in Dublin Core â€“ status of the WG (Alasdair)

Aliasdair: Sent around a Doodle. Myself, Osma, Scott, Alasdair...

----------------------------------------------------------
Next meeting

Scheduled to take place 2022-05-31, 13:00-14:00 UTC
