2022-10-25 DC-SRAP WG Zoom call

These minutes: https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-25.srap_meeting_19.md  
Previous: https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/meetings/2022-10-11.srap_meeting_18.md  

Present: Juha, Tom, Karen, Alasdair  
Regrets: Jan, Osma  
Scribe: Tom

Karen: We discussed with Niklas Lindström. KB relators are all 
defined as properties, while LC relators are not. KB relators 
cover the same as LC. Or we could remind LC that not all are 
defined as properties. Using relators not properties would not 
be proper.

ACTION 2022-10-25: Juha may eventually contact LC to ask whether 
they might be willing.

Juha: Could they be subproperties of "Agent"?

Tom: Before we approach LC, should have a wider discussion with 
Karen, Osma, Niklas whether we would want to promote, for use as 
properties, relators that are generally intended for use as 
SKOS concepts.

Karen: Why not use KB relators?

Juha: They are less well-known.

Karen: KB relators mirror LC relators 1-to-1.

Juha: No objection in principle to using KB relators. Alasdair 
took minutes from last meeting: the recommendation would be to 
use relators "from an internationally recognized list". If 
people start to invent roles themselves, would destroy 
interoperability, especially if invented in local languages.
Most catalogers know LC relators, so migrating between MARC 
and DC would be easier.

Tom: Both KB and LC relators are three-letter codes in MARC 
data and (I believe) they use the _same_ codes, so one could 
in principle choose which one to use when converting to RDF.

Juha: "Grant number" currently has strict definition, but 
MARC21 definition explicitly encompasses grant and project 
numbers - project could have several contract numbers. I 
want to include them in the definition. Using similar MARC21
definition improves interoperability.

Karen: Suspect that when money comes in in different ways, 
you want to include all of those ways.

Juha: Agree.

Karen: "Any funding that is official enough to have a number."
Different parts of the world would have different words.

Alasdair: Are we wanting to include information pertaining to 
funding body, or record as agent in separate field?

Juha: We have funder element too. Problem if we have multiple 
funders and grant numbers, hard to match them.

Karen: What is the use case? Want to record identifier, but 
do you intend this to be actionable, or searchable? If it is 
not something to compute on, then putting funder and identifier 
might not hurt.

Juha: Could provide guideline that if more than one
funder, can provide separately.

Karen: If you are using XML or RDF, you can create a 
structure to keep them together - same problem as with 
affiliation. We need a general concept of structure for 
these things.

Juha: Better to have "funder", which would have funder 
identifier and grant number. 

ACTION 2022-10-25: Juha to check to see if grant element 
has already been in production in Finland and, if so, 
how it has been used.

Karen: FOAF has fundedBy - just the organization, 
defined as an organization funding a project or person.

Juha: MARC has a solution. Solution for DC would be 
less expressive.

Karen: DC is a vocabulary - can be used in RDF with 
more expressive structures. Not limited by cardinality.

Juha: Jan says "dataset" is one word.

Karen: Naming a property for DC would be in singular 
form, then profile would say "repeatable".

Juha: Codeset is something used to process a dataset.
Recommend that people use a DOI.

Karen: "Code" (as in Schema.org), not "codeset".

Juha: Agree. Same with "dataset" - with cardinality.

Juha: Re: "accessibility" just need a preliminary view 
on whether it would be useful to add this. MARC21 and 
ONIX have ways to describe accessibility.

Karen: I see this being a good thing more for Dublin Core 
than for SRAP. Schema.org has "accessibility feature": you 
can repeat it for the features. W3C has list of terms 
for types.

Juha: "Accessibility feature" would be better than just 
"accessibility".

Alasdair: "Values should be drawn from an approved...".

Juha: We decided to use ONIX. Glad that we agree this is 
useful. Not just a SRAP term. Will put in next agenda.
In Finland, if publish PDF, required to make accessible.

Karen: Schema.org uses W3C list.

Meeting ajourned.
