# DC SRAP meeting 12

Time: 2022-04-05, 16.00-17.00 CEST (14:00-15:00 UTC)
Place: Zoom, https://helsinki.zoom.us/j/67810295086?pwd=NmJXWGNUZkhJeitSakZ2MEVlRm0yZz09
Present: Juha, Jan, Nishad, Freddy, Osma

## 1. Opening of the meeting 

Juha opened the meeting.

## 2. Appointment of the minutes taker (Juha will act as the chair)

Osma will write the minutes.

## 3. Approval of the agenda

Approved the agenda. Corrected the number of the meeting - it is 12, not 11.

## 4. Minutes of the previous meeting (2022-03-22)

Minutes were published at https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/meetings/2022-03-22.srap_meeting_11.md

No comments.

## 5. Revised Affiliation proposal, based on Option C

* presented in https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/3 by Osma

Osma: The subclass statement could be controversial. If the UB dislikes it, the obvious alternative is to drop the subclass

Juha: XML example needed.

Proposal was accepted and will be written up into the SRAP specification.

Osma: Should we change the SRAP draft after we have decided on particular issues?

Agreed to start drafting a SRAP specification in GitHub using Markdown syntax.

Freddy: I can help with writing the specification in Markdown.

Jan: In the Data Science WG, proposed using GitHub for change control, but there was a lot of pushback.

Osma: Existing dublincore.org website is built using Markdown

Nishad: I manage the website, that's correct, if we do it in Markdown then it's easy to publish it on the DC website.

Juha: That settles it, let's write the specification in Markdown.

Osma: Should we convert the existing draft to Markdown, or just write the parts that are finished?

Nishad: We could use HackMD for collaboration like the TAP WG is using.

Juha: We could schedule a meeting specifically for this discussion. Propose that this meeting makes the decision to start using Markdown for the SRAP specification, the details on how exactly to do this is the topic of another meeting.

## 6. SRAP Publication statuses (Juha; all)

Based on the previous meeting and discussion that followed, these are the proposed SRAP Publication statuses 

* draft
* preprint 
* postprint 
* publication 
* update 

There can be 0-n drafts and updates. Metadata provided should be based on a single manifestation of a scholarly resource, so one and only one publication status per record is allowed. 

A metadata record may contain multiple past dates, to describe the publication process. For instance, metadata describing a publication may have dateAccepted, datePublished and dateRetracted. However, a metadata record describing a preprint should not have datePublished even if is known. A connection between metadata records describing preprint and publication of the same work can be created using Relation element.

There are no publication statuses Lost and Missing. Instead, Date subproperties dateMissing and dateLost should be used.

See https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/11 for further information on the proposed Publication statuses and their usage. 

## 7. Date subproperties (Juha; all)

The following date subproperties were tentatively agreed on in the previous meeting: 

* dateAvailableAsDraft
* dateSubmittedAsPreprint
* dateSubmittedAsPostprint
* dateAccepted
* dateAheadOfPrint
* datePublished
* dateUpdated
* dateRetracted 
* dateMissing 
* dateLost 

SRAP should provide basic guidance on how to use these subproperties. 

See https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/20 and https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/terms/date_subproperties.md for draft definitions and usage guidelines of the proposed Date subproperties. 

NOTE Some periodicals (e.g. PLOS ONE) specify Date received (see https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0115253). Does that match our proposed subproperties (e.g. dateSubmittedAsPostprint), or should we add dateReceived and define it as a date when a postprint was received by the publisher? 

Osma: What about when an author submits a manuscript to a journal for review? That could be considered a new status "submitted" and a date "date submitted" (from author's POV) or "date received" (from journal POV).

Nishad: For software and datasets, we use "date released". 

Juha: SRAP concentrates on academic publications, software and data sets could be out of scope, would not want to extend the scope into those.

Juha: Amended the proposal to include status "submitted" and date subproperty "dateReceived".

Osma: Obvious alternative for "dateReceived" would be "dateSubmittedForReview".

Juha: Reluctant to change "dateReceived" to "dateSubmittedForReview" because it's confusing who would be doing the submitting.

Nishad: In computer science, data sets and software are already produced. CFF https://citation-file-format.github.io/ covers these and is similar to SRAP.

Osma: We need definitions. Not all date properties are clear and we are obviously interpreting them in different ways.

Juha: I've written draft definitions but they may not all be clear. See Tom's document https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/terms/date_subproperties.md for date properties. We should use that for improved definitions, which will eventually be given to the UB. The definition of preprint / dateSubmittedAsPreprint needs to be changed so it's the date when the preprint was submitted to an institutional repository (or arXiv etc.)

Juha: Status could be "manuscript" or "submitted manuscript" and the date property could be "dateReceivedAsManuscript"

## 8. Any other business 

none

## 9. Next meeting

Scheduled to take place 2022-04-19, 14:00-15:00 UTC

Juha will be on vacation, Osma will send out an agenda and chair the next meeting.

## 10. Closure of the meeting

Juha closed the meeting
