# DC SRAP meeting 60

Time: 2025-04-08, 15:00-16:00 UTC **(Note\! new time in terms of UTC)**  
Place: Zoom, [https://helsinki.zoom.us/j/62368569596?pwd=UGQxenZFbjZQUlluRzdQQUM1UFhaUT09](https://helsinki.zoom.us/j/62368569596?pwd=UGQxenZFbjZQUlluRzdQQUM1UFhaUT09) 

## Agenda

1. ### Opening of the meeting

2. ### Appointment of the minutes taker *Karen*

3. ### Approval of the agenda

4. ### Minutes of previous meetings

Minutes of meeting 58 (2025-03-11) and meeting 59 (2025-03-25) not yet posted.

Minutes of previous meetings are on GitHub:  
[https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/tree/main/meetings](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/tree/main/meetings) 

5. ### Changes to the UB proposal, SRAP specification and TAP

Nothing yet so far after the previous meeting 59â€¦

Work that still needs to be done includes:

* rewriting the introduction  
  * *add RIOXX*  
  * *related work section \- make it a paragraph*  
  * *remove "Adding SRAP" \- that is for the proposal document \- make this the outcome*  
  * *DC Terms and DCMI maintained vocabularies, in particular BIBO*  
* *Reorganize as shapes*  
  * *what links*   
  * *properties*  
* *prefixes*  
* *Do Karen's outline; use shapes as top level*  
  * *can we add description of shape to dctap for srap*  
  * *put out on hackmd for comments*  
* completing the missing parts (e.g. sections marked "TBW" in Person and Organization shapes)  
  * *part of Karen's edits*  
* *mention that isbn can be repeated for isbn13 and isbn10?*  
* updating the examples to reflect the current specification and TAP (next item)

6. ### SRAP examples

Osma will propose what to do with the current examples.  
*Are in a separate file*  
*Do examples in turtle*

Ideally we would like to have:

| Type | Current example | Comments on current example | Status |
| :---- | :---- | :---- | :---- |
| Journal article | [journalArticle.md](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/docs/examples/journalArticle.md) | Two-part full version \+ 3 flat versions | Looks OK. Do we want to choose one flat version? \-\> *drop the flat versions from here, the flat example is already included as an appendix in the main document* |
|  | [rioxx1.md](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/docs/examples/rioxx1.md) | Preprint \+ 2 grants | Needs visualization. Do we need this example at all? |
|  | [rioxx3.md](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/docs/examples/rioxx3.md) | Preprint \+ link to a dataset \+ 2 grants |  |
| Conference paper | [conferencePaper.md](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/docs/examples/conferencePaper.md) | Two-part example, quite simple. | Turtle syntax needs fixing. Need to check against latest SRAP. Needs visualization. |
| Book | \-  | \- | We need an example book\! |
| Book chapter | \- | \- | We need an example book chapter\! |
| Thesis (simple) | [thesis1.md](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/docs/examples/thesis1.md) | Extremely bare example. | Some values need fixing. Needs visualization. Is this too simple? |
| Thesis (detailed) | [docthesis-with-opponent-and-series.md](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/docs/examples/docthesis-with-opponent-and-series.md) | Very detailed example. Includes contributor roles (opponent, reviewer, degree supervisor) as MARC relators. | Need to check against latest SRAP. Includes series information, but we don't have support for that in current SRAP. |

- *journal article: what to do with flat versions?*  
- *fold in examples to main document?*  
- *put them as an appendix (rioxx has collapsable section at the end)*  
- *rioxx1 example: this is a pre-print in a repo, with funding \- DROP; rioxx3*   
- *rioxx3 includes link to dataset*  
- *see how examples show in github.io*  
- *other examples: Jan has provided book eg and will send a chapter one*  
- *Osma will work on examples.*   
- *thesis1 is very simple \-*   
- *more complex thesis \- do we need a shape for series? seems the same as periodical. Alasdair: properties would be the same. Could another name cover both?*

7. ### Next steps for taking SRAP to the Usage Board

GitHub issue: [https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/64](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/issues/64) 

At the last meeting 59, we decided to present SRAP to the UB chairs once again. Osma has asked the UB chairs whether Friday 11th April would be a good time for this.

*April 11 doesn't work, Osma will keep trying for a time. Probably not in the next two weeks.*

8. ### Any other business 

9. ### Closure of the meeting

